>> Kyle Simpson: Hello and welcome.
This is Getting Into JavaScript.
I'm Kyle Simpson.
A lot of you I know and
either know online or in person.
So if you find me online,
you can always look for Getify,
that's my Gmail address,
my Twitter, my GitHub.
There's lots of places to find me online.
So any time that you are going
through this course, or afterwards,
reviewing things, feel free to
find me online under Getify, and
reach out with any feedback, questions.
I love getting to help people
learn about JavaScript.
This is what I do for a living,
I just travel all over and
teach this kind of stuff.
And it's a particular joy to teach
this exact course because getting
into JavaScript is really
the bootstrapping, if you will.
It's the first steps for some of you,
maybe never having done
any programming at all.
And that's really exciting to see because
we know that a couple of years from now
you'll be mid and senior level
developers at at an amazing jobs.
And it's cool to be part of
this first initial steps.
So I'm excited to jump into
that journey with you.
Let's dive in and
let's start talking about JavaScript.
We'll first actually
look at programming and
then programming specifically
in the context of JavaScript.
As a companion to go
along with this course,
I wanna point out one of
the books that I've written.
This is in the You Don't Know JS
book series, and
many of you know about that series.
You can read the entire six-book
series for free online, and
there's a link to the GitHub
repo here in the slides.
But they've also been published
officially as regular books.
So you can find those any place that you
buy books online like Amazon and so forth.
But the first book of that
series is called Up and Going.
And I wanted to just
sort of frame that book.
So the first chapter of that book is about
I've never done any programming before.
What is a program, what is a line of code,
what is a statement?
And if you're in that boat, that's exactly
where chapter one was written for you.
And the first part of our discussion
today will kinda quickly review some of
those basic concepts, just in case any
of you have maybe never heard some
of those words like statements or
expressions before.
But this book should be seen as a
companion to this course to help you sort
of as a roadmap go into more
detail on any of these topics.
So if we say something, if we move
a little too quick on something,
make sure you dive back into the book.
Chapter one is all about I've
never programmed before and
Chapter 2 is all about,
have done some programming before.
I understand if statements and
for loops, but
I've never really done
anything with JavaScript.
What do I need to know to really
get up and going with JavaScript?
That's what chapter two is all about.
It goes into all the things that we'll
cover today, but in much more detail.
So look through chapter two.
And then finally,
chapter three of this book,
that's it, it's only three chapters,
70 or 80 pages long.
But chapter three of the book is all
about orienting you to where to look for
more information throughout
the rest of the series.
So it covers or it highlights and
overviews each one of the things that
all the other five books
in this series focus on.
So I definitely encourage you to go and
either read online for free or
pick up a copy of this book and
use this as your companion guide
as we go throughout the course.
The most common thing that people talk
about when they talk about starting a new
programming language or starting the idea
of programming or maybe a new framework or
a new tool is the Hello World.
How do I make it say Hello World?
And I wanted to give you just a quick
glimpse of a sort of Hello Worldish
kind of JavaScript program.
Obviously it doesn't
literally say Hello World.
But it's just a quick glimpse, and by the
end of our discussion today you should be
fully and
completely confident in this sort of code,
being able to write this sort of thing for
yourself in JavaScript.
So we have a couple of things that
are starting off right at the beginning.
We've got a variable called teacher and
another one called twitterHandle and
another one called age.
And then we have this
thing called a function.
The function whoAmI that takes some
inputs, those are called parameters.
You see on line 6 a console.log,
that's how we print things
to the developer console.
And then down on line 12, the whoAmI,
that reference is actually
calling the function.
So if any of those things that I just said
in the last 20 seconds were like, wait,
calling a function, what does that mean?
Don't worry,
we're gonna get into all of those things.
So this is the kind of code that we want
to be able to dive into and be totally
confident on so that it's our foundation
for exploring the rest of the language.
So that's our motivation for this course
that we're going to dive into today.
But before we move on,
let's actually see that code running.
I've got that code loaded up in
a run JS environment this is one of
my favorite ones.
You can, of course,
also use something like a Chrome console,
the developer console, or even use on
the command line something like Node.js.
But I'm gonna run this code.
You'll notice I have the teacher,
twitterHandle, age, the function.
I'm gonna run this code and
we'll see the output here on the right.
You'll notice that it has
printed out a string.
Hi, I'm Kyle, aka getify,
and I'm 39 years old.
Now, if I had done this workshop
a few months ago, back before my most
recent birthday, and I was 38,
if we change that value and we rerun it.
You'll notice that the value changed.
Or if I, for some reason or another,
decided to change my Twitter
handle to theGetify,
then we could change that value.
And now you see that the value
changing every time we run it.
So that's an example of the kinds of
things that you're gonna wanna play with
as you go throughout this course.
You're gonna wanna try the code, but it's
most important that you write the code and
then run it.
So make sure you're familiar with one of
these environments where you can execute
the code and
see those results hands-on for yourself.